# Problem 002

## [Even Fibonacci numbers](https://projecteuler.net/problem=2)

[<prev](./../001_multiples_of_3_and_5/README.md)/[next>](./../003_dirname/README.md)

### The example:
`Each new term in the Fibonacci sequence is generated by adding the previous two terms. By starting with 1 and 2, the first 10 terms will be:`
```
1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, ...
```

### The challenge:
`By considering the terms in the Fibonacci sequence whose values do not exceed four million, find the sum of the even-valued terms.`

### Initial thoughts:
This will be tackled by first figuring out how to construct the Fibonacci sequence of numbers, then preparing a function that can generate a list of Fibonacci numbers stopping at a given limit. Then from that list, extract the even numbers and sum these together and returning this sum.
According to [the OEIS](https://oeis.org/A000045/list), the first two digits of the Fibonacci sequence are 0, 1; however in this challenge the first two terms are defined as 1, 2. This is a subtle difference that will have no impact on our eventual total but has been noted as having an impact on how we will need to 'seed' our Fibonacci list.

### Pseudocode for first iteration
```
SET the limit of how large our fibonacci terms will be
SET fibonacci sequence as starting with 1, 2
BEGIN LOOP
  CHECK the value of the last number in the list
  IF the last number in the list is > limit
  THEN break the loop AND return the list
  ELSE add together the last + penultimate numbers in the list AND
    append this new number to the end of the list
END LOOP
```
```
SET running total = 0
RECIEVE a list of numbers
FOR each number in the list
  IF the number is even
  THEN add this number to running total
  ELSE do nothing
RETURN the running total
```

### Comments on first iteration:
I prepared a version of the above pseudocode in Python, this provided the answer as expected. \
At the moment I don't see any way for this to be refactored significantly. The only idea I have is to find a way that we don't need to build a long list of numbers. Instead to set up a system where the list is only ever three elements, and each time a new one is added, the first one is taken out and the running total increased in-place. This seems to be more efficient in terms of memory allocation but might require more computational power. It might be interesting to write this code and check by measuring the time to perform the action which one is faster.\
For the time being this will remain as a plan for the future.

